VPCs and Subnets

A virtual private cloud (VPC) is a virtual network dedicated to your AWS account. It is logically isolated from other virtual networks in the AWS cloud. 
You can launch your AWS resources, such as Amazon EC2 instances, into your VPC.

A subnet is a range of IP addresses in your VPC. You can launch AWS resources into a subnet that you select. 
	Public and Private
	Multiple layer of security SG, ACL

gains of launching ec2 instances in VPC.
	static private IP
	we can assign ipv6 CIDR block
	network interface
	change SG
	control in/out bound traffic
	ACL
	Single tenant HW.

Default and Nondefault VPCs
	Default VPC is coming with AWS startup with defalt subnet in each AZ.
	While launching instance in default VPC no need to provide subnet.
	VPC created by us and additional subnet created for default and our VPC are called non default subnets.

Accessing the Internet:
	Your default VPC includes an Internet gateway, and each default subnet is a public subnet.
	hese instances can communicate with the Internet through the Internet gateway
	An Internet gateway enables your instances to connect to the Internet through the Amazon EC2 network edge
	each instance that you launch into a nondefault subnet has a private IPv4 address, but no public IPv4 address, 
		unless you specifically assign one at launch, or you modify the subnet's public IP address attribute. 
		These instances can communicate with each other, but can't access the Internet
	You can enable Internet access for an instance launched into a nondefault subnet by attaching an Internet gateway to its VPC (if its VPC is not a default VPC) 
		and associating an Elastic IP address with the instance.

	Alternatively, to allow an instance in your VPC to initiate outbound connections to the Internet but prevent unsolicited inbound connections from the Internet, 
		you can use a network address translation (NAT) device for IPv4 traffic. NAT maps multiple private IPv4 addresses to a single public IPv4 address. 
		A NAT device has an Elastic IP address and is connected to the Internet through an Internet gateway.


	
